If you look at the AI sector landscape
more broadly, what you've seen is
OpenAI's early dominance being
challenged increasingly by Anthropic.
Anthropic is drawing investor interest
at a valuation of $800 billion
>> [music]
>> or higher.
Making it close to, if not the most
valuable startup in the world.
Turbocharging the hype is [music]
Anthropic's latest model called Mythos.
Only a small number of companies outside
of Anthropic have access to it [music]
and on a limited basis. This limited
release has been dubbed Project
Glasswing and all the participants
include [music] a who's who of Silicon
Valley. We know that Apple, Google, Palo
Alto Networks, CrowdStrike, the Linux
Foundation, [music]
Amazon that are part of this Glasswing
project. It's a highly unusual
arrangement. These are fierce
competitors [music]
who are trying to get the best model out
there.
>> [music]
>> And Anthropic is not only showing them
sort of some IP that hasn't been
released yet, they're allowing their
competitors to potentially criticize
some of the work that they did. The
unorthodox rollout has generated a lot
of publicity and already [music] there
are reports of unauthorized users
accessing the model. This is terribly
basic [music]
cybersecurity practice 101 that was
missed here.
We have been hearing about this
theoretical [music]
threat that AI poses to cybersecurity
and what Mythos has proven is that that
threat is a reality.
There are big worries that this, if it
falls into the wrong hands, it could
essentially lead to some of the greatest
[music] cyber risks that humanity's ever
faced. With massive potential for havoc
and the stakes so high, is tech's era of
move fast and break things finally over?
Well, Bloomberg has learned that the
Treasury secretary Scott Bessent and Fed
chair Jerome Powell summoned Wall Street
leaders to an urgent meeting on concerns
that the [music] latest AI model from
Anthropic will usher in an era of
greater cyber [music] risk.
Although the discussions were of course
private, the gist of the meeting was,
>> [music]
>> "Hey banks, better start testing this
thing now before it's too late."
>> [music]
>> The US banking sector is obviously
systemically super important to the US
economy and the global economy.
Trillions of dollars go through these
banks' pipes every single day. The
threat Mythos poses is twofold.
It has the ability to detect
vulnerabilities in basically every web
browser, every computer system that it's
so far been tested on. That could be
finding issues in a lot of the web
services we use, financial payment
services, operating systems like on
iPhones and Android. So, you're talking
bugs, potential holes in infrastructure
that these banks might have been sitting
on for years or decades and maybe
haven't patched up that might be
vulnerable to outside hackers.
But Mythos doesn't just find bugs. It
knows how to take advantage of them.
You would have to kind of be able to
direct it in some way, but largely it
was autonomously able to go and find
bugs and exploits and come up with a
plan on how to actually take action on
them and potentially do some harm to to
the product that [music] it found the
flaw in.
It lowers the playing field in terms of
the skill set that you need, the time it
takes. You could do this en masse.
And also the cost.
You've seen historically that nation
states might spend years and a huge
amount in financial investment in
creating a army of military hackers who
are extremely experienced, great coders.
Having [music] access to something like
this reduces the need for that at all.
It is not just nation-state hackers,
too. It's financial career criminals,
these criminal gangs that operate all
around the world. The risks don't stop
in the US. We've also had the central
[music] banks of Canada, now also the UK
as well, calling companies together to
talk about Methos and the risks that are
posed by it. The engagement that I've
had from CEOs in the last week
in the UK has been significant.
Fear of dangerous AI and its
consequences have been with us for
decades and is ubiquitous in popular
culture. I'll be back. But science
fiction aside, the ethics of how to
deploy AI is rapidly becoming the
loudest debate in the industry and it's
central to Anthropic's founding.
A group of early OpenAI employees left
to start Anthropic with the goal of
building more advanced AI systems, but
in a safer and more responsible way. And
that has really been their brand
throughout their history. The company's
MO has led to a showdown with the
Pentagon, which contracted with
Anthropic in July of 2025.
Anthropic is really pushing back at two
key points. One, to have more clear
guardrails preventing AI from being used
to aid in mass surveillance. And then
the other being AI used to basically use
autonomous weapons.
For the Pentagon, the argument is that
no private company should basically be
meddling in the Defense Department's
affairs. No private company should be
telling the Defense Department and the
armed forces how to use technology on
the battlefield.
Anthropic is now in court, suing the
Pentagon over the Pentagon's decision to
declare a supply chain risk. A very rare
designation usually reserved for foreign
adversaries. So, while the Department of
Defense seeks to blacklist Anthropic,
the Treasury and White House are pushing
to expand access.
Suddenly, it feels like parts of the
Trump administration are waking up to
the reality that they probably need to
work with Anthropic.
There's really no regulatory framework
around AI. At the end of the day, a
private company made a choice, seemingly
on its own, to withhold its model from
wider [music] release. But nobody told
it to do that. That is probably the
ultimate indictment [music] on the
current state of the regulatory
framework, at least in the US.
But longer term, if you're trying to
establish AI supremacy in the world, it
may not be the best idea to cut off the
company that now increasingly seems like
it's at the vanguard of US AI
development.
A flip side to all the caution around
Mythos is the idea that hamstringing its
rollout actually amounts to a brilliant
marketing campaign. There's no way they
made an AI too powerful to release.
>> They're about to be victims of doom
marketing. That helps them raise capital
and it gets people pretty hyped up. With
Mythos, I think you're seeing a company
that genuinely is concerned about the
capabilities of its models. At the same
time, is it in some way self-serving to
show the world, "We've built something
incredibly powerful, but we just don't
want you to have it."
If it's bait, then from a Wall Street
perspective, it's been taken.
Take a look at the S&P 500 and Nasdaq. A
Bloomberg index tracking AI-related
companies continues to outperform both.
And that's before AI darlings like
Anthropic and OpenAI have even gone
public. There does appear to be a race
to go public right now in the AI sector.
The most recent reporting that we have
says that Anthropic could go public as
soon as October. OpenAI is also widely
expected [music]
to be vying for public offering as soon
as this year. And Elon Musk's xAI might
beat them both to the punch after
merging with SpaceX, which is set to go
public as soon as June. But the uproar
on Wall Street adds pressure to prove
profitability. OpenAI initially went
after consumers. OpenAI's ChatGPT now
has more than 900 million weekly users.
That rivals the reach of a lot of large
social networks. Anthropic took a
different route. Their core business was
enterprise customers.
This brings us back to that meeting with
the banks. Banks already spend vast
amounts on that technology, and that's
one of the reasons that companies like
Anthropic and OpenAI want to partner
with them already, right? These
companies are already investing really
heavily both in their own internal AI
tech, but also in the contracts that
they're signing with outside vendors
like Anthropic. Spending on
cybersecurity just keeps growing.
>> [music]
>> Expenditures are expected to reach $300
billion by 2030. Where Anthropic and
OpenAI have really excelled in recent
months is building tools that automate
the process of writing and debugging
code.
Now, Anthropic, OpenAI, and other
privately held firms are trying to sort
of prove that their technology is not
just useful for software developers, but
that it's broadly useful [music] for
scientists, for financial firms, for
creatives.
That's still a work in progress. [music]
The same technology that might one day
lead to a scientific breakthrough will
sometimes struggle with basic math.
Cybersecurity has emerged as another
interesting and key use case here, but
it's kind of an offshoot of coding. So,
with Mythos, they're tapping into that
hype.
>> [music]
>> In their own words, the same
capabilities that made AI models
dangerous in the wrong hands make
[music] them invaluable for finding and
fixing flaws in important software.
The Mythos story is about trying to
fight fire [music] with fire.
While it creates opportunities for
havoc, it also promises a stronger
rebuild, all while opening up a
lucrative revenue stream in the
meantime.
Up until now, the main conversation
about AI has been what's going to happen
to our jobs, because so much of this
technology has been to streamline back
office processes, find efficiencies. But
now, the worries are not just about job
safety, they're actually about system
safety and security safety. And that
takes this to another level.